The detection of production plant shutdown has been achieved using Transformer model which is trained on historical plant data. The model has been tested with multiple time window and resampling period. On top of that, the Transformer model has been trained and tested with the pre-built code available in the kerasio/examples but the model trained gives poor result. So, after changing the configurations of the model with suits with our data, the model performed slightly better. For an instance, the transformer block available in the example code consists of 4 but after changing it to 6, we obtained better results. Subsequently, we have started tuning the model by changing different parameters and by changing the channels of the multi head attention layer. Channel_first and Channel_last has been compared. Here, the Channel_first performed well but it’s the channel which is available in the example code so there is no improvement. Then, we have decided to combine the channels as Channel_first + Channel_last. There the model got a better improvement while compared with other models trained. Still we have planned to tune the model for better possible outcome. So, we have reduced using dropout layers which is present the building of the model. but its not a better idea for enhancing the model as expected. This model results in poor detection so we have dropped the plan of reducing the dropout layers. Moreover, this method has been tested for the same data with combination of 4 different time window and resampling period. They are, 6 Hour time window and 10 minutes resampling period, 7 Hour time window and 10 minutes resampling period, 12 Hour time window and 10 minute resampling period, 5 Hour time window and 12 minutes resampling period. However, the time window 6 hour and resampling period of 10 minutes returns the better accuracy and loss after evaluating the models of the 5 different folders. Furthermore, the accuracy of the model stands approximately at 91% and loss of 30%.